#summary Populates the datastore with the given testdata.

= Introduction =

This page loads any testdata that has not yet been loaded into the datastore.

= URL =
live release: http://54270c.appspot.com/admin/searchapplicants

= Details =

This page is accessed by the link "Populate DB with test data."
PopulateDB.py's get() method simply queries the datastore to see if a specific entity has already been put().  If not, it creates the Entry and calls put().  This guarantees nonduplicate data.

It loads:
 - Majors:  Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering.

 - Programming Languages:  C, C++, LISP, Java, Ruby, Perl, Python, Assembly, Visual Basic, Pascal.

 - Specializiations:  Microprocessor and VLSI Design, Networks, Graphics, Operating Systems, Computer Vision, Theory, Software Engineering, Natural Language Processing, Parallel Computing.

 - Semesters:  Spring 2008, Fall 2008, Spring 2009

 - Instructors:  Glenn Downing, Don Fussell, Vicki Almstrum, Dana Ballard, Ray Mooney, Vijaya Ramachandran, William Young, Lorenzo Alvisi, Doug Berger, Mohamed Gouda.

 - TAs:  Steven Baggs, Jessica Higgins, Bob Mathews, Ahmadi Alagappan, Henry Huntington, Gupta Kumar, Paolo Giovanni, Mona Liz.

 - Courses: from courses.txt, provided on Blackboard.

 - Classes: from course_instances.txt, provided on Blackboard.

 - Applications: from applicants.txt, provided on Blackboard.

 = Example of a data entry = 

{{{
        taQuery = db.GqlQuery("SELECT * FROM UserEntry WHERE eid = :1", "gk100")
        if taQuery.count() == 0 :
            self.taEntry = Tables.UserEntry(eid = "gk100", name = "Gupta Kumar", userType = "ta")
            self.taEntry.put()
        else :
            self.taEntry = taQuery[0]
}}}