#summary Admin can change class properties.

= Introduction =

The View/Edit classes subpage allows an admin to specify a class, then modify the class's instructor, expected enrollment, number of TAs needed, and number of TAs assigned.
  * An active semester *must* be initiated for this page to display classes to edit.

= URL =

local project: http://localhost:8080/admin/classes/edit

live release: http://54270c.appspot.com/admin/classes/edit

= Details =

Upon first visit, the user is presented with a select field containing the classes present during the Active Semester.

When the user selects a class to modify, four criteria appear:

  # Class instructor: Dropdown box (default value is the current instructor)
    * Will change the instructor of the course to the specified instructor
  # Expected enrollment:  Textbox (default value is the current expected enrollment).
    * Will change the expected enrollment of the class.
  # Number of needed TAs:  Textbox (default value is the current expected enrollment).
    * Will change the desired number of TAs for the class.
  # Number of assigned TAs:  Textbox
    * This, perhaps, shouldn't be here.  But it changes the number of assigned TAs, which only will affect the algorithm for matching TAs.

None of these fields are required.

= Implementation =
The fields are populated with their default values by querying the datastore for the ClassEntry specified by the user upon his/her first visit.  Upon submission, the datastore will be updated with the changes, if any.